# 3D Magnetometer


---

Datasheet

---

Table of Contents
1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION ................................................................................... 4
2 BLOCK DIAGRAM, PACKAGE DIMENSION AND APPLICATION CIRCUIT ... 5
2.1 Block diagram ............................................................................................................ 5
2.2 Package Dimensions and Pin Description....................................................................... 5
2.3 Application Circuit ...................................................................................................... 7
3 OPERATIONAL MODES AND FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTIONS ......................... 8
3.1 Operation modes ......................................................................................................... 8
3.1.1 Stand-By Mode ........................................................................................................ 8
3.1.2 Single Measurement Mode ........................................................................................ 8
3.1.3 Self-Test Mode ........................................................................................................ 8
3.2 Interrupt Function ....................................................................................................... 9
3.3 DRDY Function .......................................................................................................... 9
3.4 IST8310 Read Process ................................................................................................. 9
4 ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATIONS ...................................................................... 10
4.1 Extreme Rating ......................................................................................................... 10
4.2 Recommended Operating Conditions .......................................................................... 10
4.3 Electrical Specifications............................................................................................. 10
4.4 Magnetic Sensor Specifications .................................................................................. 11
4.5 Power On Reset (POR) Specifications ......................................................................... 12
5 TECHNOLOGY OVERVIEW .............................................................................. 13
5.1 AMR Technology ...................................................................................................... 13
5.2 High Reliability Planarized Design ............................................................................. 13
5.3 Ultra-low Hysteresis Design ....................................................................................... 13
5.4 Magnetic Setting Mechanism ..................................................................................... 13
6 DIGITAL INTERFACE AND REGISTERS .......................................................... 14

---

6.1 I2C Interface ............................................................................................................. 14
6.2 I2C Read Operation ................................................................................................... 14
6.3 I2C Write Operation ................................................................................................... 15
6.4 Registers .................................................................................................................. 15
7 ORDERING INFORMATION ............................................................................. 21

---

1 General Description
iSentek IST8310 is a 3-axis digital magnetometer with 3.0x3.0x1.0mm3, 16-pin LGA package. It is an
integrated chip with 3-axis magnetic sensors, digital control logic, built-in temperature compensation
circuit and self-test function. IST8310 provides an I2C digital output with fast mode up to 400kHz.
The high output data rate, ultra-low hysteresis, excellent temperature drift and low noise performance
feathers make it a perfect candidate for high accuracy applications.
Features
 Single chip 3-axis magnetic sensor
 3.0x3.0x1.0mm3, 16-pin LGA package
 I2C slave, Fast Mode up to 400kHz
 14 bits data output
 Wide dynamic range of ±1600uT (x, y-axis) and ±2500uT (z-axis)
 High output data rate of maximum 200Hz
 Ultra-low hysteresis (<0.1%FS)
 Ultra-low sensitivity temperature drift (±0.016 %/ oK)
 Ultra-low offset temperature drift (0.024uT/ oK)
 Wide operating temperature range
 High precision temperature compensation
 Built-in self-test function
 Software and algorithm support available (For tilt compensation, cross-axis compensation and
noise suppression)
Applications
Quadcopter/Drone Applications
Augmented Reality Applications
Virtual Reality Applications
Location Based Services
Navigation Applications
Industrial Applications
Magnetometry
IOT devices
Heading
Gaming

---

2 Block Diagram, Package Dimension and Application Circuit
2.1 Block diagram
Figure 1. Block Diagram
2.2 Package Dimensions and Pin Description
Unit: mm
Tolerance: ±0.1mm
MUX
Low
Noise
AMP
ADC
SDA
DRDY
SCL
Set/Reset
Controller
Clock
Generator
Trimming
Logic
3-Axis
AMR
Sensing
Elements
Regulator
AVDD
VSS
RSTN
C1
OTP
VPP
Digital
Control
Logic
CAD0 CAD1
DVDD
Temperature
Compensation
Circuit
3.0
3.0
0.625
0.5
IST8310 LGA Top View (Looking Through)
0.25
0.625
0.325
0.5

---

Unit: mm
Tolerance: ±0.1mm
Pin
Name
Function
SCL
I2C serial clock
AVDD
Analog supply voltage, 1.72~3.6V
NC
Not use
NC
Not use
CAD0
I2C slave address
CAD1
I2C slave address
VPP
Test pin, floating connection is suggested
NC
Not use
VSS
GND
C1
Set/Reset function, 4.7uF
VSS
GND
NC
Not use
DVDD
Digital supply voltage, 1.72~3.6V
RSTN
Reset pin, resets registers by setting it to “Low”.
Internally pulled to “High” for floating connection.
MCU connection is suggested (but not necessary).
DRDY
Data ready indication, output pin only
SDA
I2C serial data
*please refer to Figure 2.
1.0
IST8310 LGA Side View
Z+
Y+
X+
IST8310 3D Top View

---

2.3 Application Circuit
Figure 2. Application Circuit
                 Slave Address Select
       CAD1     CAD0      Address (7-bit)   Address (8-bit)
        VSS        VSS
   0CH
          18H
        VSS        VDD
   0DH                    1AH
        VDD       VSS
   0EH                     1CH
        VDD       VDD
   0FH                     1EH
*if CAD1 and CAD0 are floating, I2C address will be 0EH/1CH.
4.7uF
SCL
AVDD
NC
NC
CAD0
CAD1
VPP
NC
NC
GND
C1
GND
SDA
DRDY
RSTN
DVDD
0.1uF
AVDD
DVDD
4.7K
0.1uF
4.7K
(Top View)
RSTN
SCL
SDA
DRDY

---

3 Operational Modes and Functional Descriptions
3.1 Operation modes
 IST8310 has following operation modes:
  (1) Stand-By Mode
  (2) Single Measurement Mode
  (3) Self-Test Mode
3.1.1 Stand-By Mode
The initial mode (after power on) of IST8310 is Stand-By Mode. In Stand-By Mode, all internal
circuits are off (except oscillator and regulator). All registers can be accessed in Stand-By Mode. Data
stored in Read/Write registers remains as last state. Registers can be reset by soft reset or hard reset
(through RSTN pin).
As initial setting, please set Pulse Duration Control Register, PDCTNL(0x42) = 11000000b (C0H) for
performance optimization. For low noise performance, please set Average Control Register,
AVGCNTL(0x41) = 00100100b (24H) for more internal average times. The minimum waiting time
between two measurements under low noise performance setup is 6ms (166Hz).
3.1.2 Single Measurement Mode
In Single Measurement Mode, the measured data is stored in data registers then IST8310 transits to
Stand-By Mode automatically. On transition to Stand-By Mode, Control register 1(CNTL1[3:0]) turns
to “0000”. At the same time, DRDY bit in STAT1 register turns to “1”. This is called “data ready”.
When any of the measurement data registers or STAT2 register is read, DRDY bit turns to “0”. For the
next measurement, user needs to set Control register 1(CNTL1[3:0]) to “0001” again. The minimum
waiting time between two measurements in default setup is 5ms (200Hz).
Please noted in IST8310, ultra-low noise performance is obtained through soft-averaging in
driver. Please contact iSentek for technical details.
3.1.3 Self-Test Mode
Self-Test mode is used to check if the 3-axis outputs read in Single Measurement Mode are correct. It
is activated by setting Self-Test Register (0x0C) to 40h; then all 3-axis outputs will change their
polarity. User can check the 3-axis output values before and after activating Self-Test Mode; if the
absolute values are the same, then the IC is working correctly. It can be turned off by setting Self-Test
Register (0x0C) to 00h.

---

3.2 Interrupt Function
Interrupt function is used when there is a huge external magnetic field in the surrounding. When the
absolute sum of measured 3-axis output value exceeds 1600 uT, the INT flag is activated. The INT flag
can be found in STAT2 register.
3.3 DRDY Function
DRDY function is used when the output data is updated. The DRDY pin is used to monitor the data
ready output. DRDY is changed to low after reading data from the output register.
3.4 IST8310 Read Process
(1) Read STAT1 register:
‐ Polling STAT1 register bit 0
‐ DRDY: shows if the data is ready or not
0: no data ready
1: data ready
‐ DOR: shows if any data has been skipped before the current data
0: no skipped data
1: data skipped.
(2) Read Measurement Data:
Read Register 0x03h~0x08h for X, Y and Z axis data. When data reading starts, DRDY bit and
DOR bit turn to “0”.

---

4 Electrical Specifications
4.1 Absolute Maximum Ratings
Parameter
Symbol
Limits
Unit
Storage Temperature
TSTG
-40 to +125
oC
Operating Temperature
TA
-40 to +85
oC
Analog Supply Voltage
AVDD
-0.5 to +3.6
V
Digital Supply Voltage
DVDD
-0.5 to +3.6
V
Digital Input Voltage
VIN
-0.3 to DVDD+0.3
V
Electrostatic Discharge Voltage*1
VESD_HBM
-4000 to 4000
V
Electrostatic Discharge Voltage*2
VESD_MM
-350 to 350
V
Reflow Classification
JESD22-A113 with 260 oC Peak Temperature
1. Human Body Model (HBM)
2. Machine Model (MM)
4.2 Recommended Operating Conditions
Parameter
Symbol
Min.
Typ.
Max.
Unit
Operating Temperature
TA
-40
+85
oC
Analog Supply Voltage
AVDD
1.72
2.8
3.6
V
Digital Supply Voltage
DVDD
1.72
1.8
3.6
V
4.3 Electrical Specifications
(Operating conditions: TA=+25℃; AVDD=2.8V; DVDD=1.8V; 0.1µF ceramic capacitors tied closely
to AVDD/DVDD and GND respectively.)
Parameter
Symbol
Conditions
Min.
Typ.
Max
Unit
Operating Current
IDD3A
Full operation, at
1 sps
8 sps
10 sps
20 sps
50 sps
100 sps
200 sps
uA
Standby Current
ISTB
uA

---

Output Data Rate
(ODR)
ODR
Hz
Input Low Voltage
VIL
DVDD
*30%
V
Input High Voltage
VIH
DVDD
*70%
DVDD
V
Output Low Voltage
VOL
IOL= +4 mA
DVDD
*20%
V
Output High Voltage
VOH
IOH= -100 uA
(Except SCL and
SDA)
DVDD
*80%
DVDD
V
4.4 Magnetic Sensor Specifications
(Operating conditions: Ta=+25℃; AVDD=2.8V; DVDD=1.8V; 4.7µF ceramic capacitors tied closely
to C1 and GND respectively. )
Parameter
Symbol
Condition
Min.
Typ.
Max
Unit
Dynamic Range
MDR_XY
TA=25 oC
±1600
uT
MDR_Z
TA=25 oC
±2500
Linearity
LIN
X-axis
1.5
%FS
Y, Z-axis
0.1
0.5
Resolution
RESO
0.3
uT/LSB
Sensitivity
SEN
3.3
LSB/uT
Zero Gauss Offset
ZGD
RMS value
±0.3
uT
Hysteresis
HS
0.1
%FS
Sensitivity
Temperature Drift
TD_S
-40 ~ 85 oC
±0.016
%/ oK
Zero-B Offset
Temperature Drift
TD_O
-40 ~ 85 oC
0.024
uT/ oK

---

4.5 Power On Reset (POR) Specifications
When POR circuit detects the rise of AVDD voltage, it resets all internal circuits and initializes all
registers. After reset, IST8310 transits to Stand-By mode.
PSTO
PSTO: Power Supply Turn Off voltage
PSOI: Power Supply Turn Off Interval
POR: Power On Reset
AVDD
PSOI
0v
POR
POR
PSTO: max=0.1volt
PSOI: min=10ms
POR: max:50ms

---

5 Technology Overview
5.1 AMR Technology
IST8310, an iSentek patented magnetometer is designed based on Anisotropy Magneto-Resistance
(AMR) technology. The output is generated from the resistance change of the AMR resistors while
external magnetic field changes. The sensitivity is about 50 to 200 times larger than traditional Hall
element. The high sensitivity allows higher output data rate (ODR), lower noise and lower power
consumption.
5.2 High Reliability Planarized Structure Design
IST8310 consists of three full Whetstone Bridge of AMR resistors. The three bridges detecting
magnetic component in three directions orthogonal to each other are located on one chip, wire-bonded
to a control ASIC. This planarized structure design enables outstanding stability to thermal shock,
making our device highly reliable, immune from thermal reflow-induced failure. While other known
AMR magnetometers placing z-axis sensor vertical to the substrate using 90-degree flip-chip
packaging suffers from reliability issues
5.3 Ultra-low Hysteresis Design
iSentek has developed a specialized high permeability (μ) material for magnetic field detection. This
high-μ material has ultra-low residual magnetization below 0.1 %FS in the field range as large as +/-
500 G. The ultra-low hysteresis design prevents the magnetometer from dynamic offset after
encountering a strong external magnetic field impact; that is, the angular accuracy restores
automatically without calibration after the removal of interference field. This feature fulfills the
requirements for applications when real time calibration is not available. No calibration is required in
general conditions.
5.4 Magnetic Setting Mechanism
AMR sensing resistors consist of Permalloy thin film and metallization. Permalloy is soft magnetic,
irreversible magnetic rotation may occur after the strength of external magnetic field exceeds half of
the anisotropy field of the sensing resistor, resulting in angular error induced by offset. To solve this
issue, a magnetic setting mechanism is introduced in IST8310. A magnetic field is generated within
IST8310 to align the magnetization of AMR sensing resistors before every measurement. This
auto-zeroing mechanism ensures the stability of angular accuracy of IST8310 during whole operation.

---

6 Digital Interface and Registers
6.1 I2C Interface
The interface of IST8310 follows the standard I2C definition guidelines with some additional protocol
definitions. IST8310 supports standard speed (100kHz) and fast speed (400kHz). Pull-up resistors of
4.7kohm for both SDA and SCL lines should be used.
Figure 3. I2C Operation
6.1.1 Slave Address
MSB                                                              LSB
Bit7
Bit6
Bit5
Bit4
Bit3
Bit2
Bit1
Bit0
selectable
selectable
R/W
IST8310 has 4 different I2C slave addresses, which can be chosen through Pin 5 (CAD0) and Pin 6
(CAD1), the corresponding 7-bit and 8-bit defined I2C slave addresses are listed below:
6.2 I2C Read Operation
Single Byte Read:
SA
Slave
Address+ RW
ACK
Reg
Address
ACK
SP
Slave Address+RW
ACK
DATA
NA
ST
Figure 4. I2C Single Byte Read Operation
CAD1
CAD0
I2C Slave Address
(7-bit)
I2C Slave Address
(8-bit)
VSS
VSS
0CH
18H
VSS
VDD
0DH
1AH
VDD
VSS
0EH
1CH
VDD
VDD
0FH
1EH
Floating (default)
Floating (default)
0EH
1CH

---

ACK: Acknowledge, NA: Not Acknowledge, SA: START Condition, SP: Repeat Start Condition, ST: STOP Condition
■: Slave to Master
: Master to Slave
Multiple Byte Read:
SA
Slave
Address+
RW
ACK
Reg
Address
ACK
SP
Slave
Address+RW
ACK
DATA
ACK
DATA
NA
ST
Figure 5. I2C Multiple Byte Read Operation
ACK: Acknowledge, NA: Not Acknowledge, SA: START Condition, SP: Repeat Start Condition, ST: STOP Condition
■: Slave to Master
: Master to Slave
6.3 I2C Write Operation
Single Byte Write:
SA
Slave Address +RW
ACK
Reg Address
ACK
DATA
ACK
ST
Figure 6. I2C Single Byte Write Operation
ACK: Acknowledge, NA: Not Acknowledge, SA: START Condition, SP: Repeat Start Condition, ST: STOP Condition
■: Slave to Master
: Master to Slave
Multiple Byte Write:
SA
Slave Address
+RW
ACK
Reg Adderss
ACK
DATA
ACK
DATA
NA
ST
Figure 7. I2C Multiple Byte Write Operation
ACK: Acknowledge, NA: Not Acknowledge, SA: START Condition, SP: Repeat Start Condition, ST: STOP Condition
■: Slave to Master
: Master to Slave
6.4 Registers
6.4.1 Customer Defined Registers
Register name
Typ
I2C
Addr
Size
(bit)
Info
Who am I
R
00h
Device ID
Status Register 1
R
02h
Data Status
Output Value X_L
R
03h
Low byte for X-axis data
Output Value X_H
R
04h
High byte for X-axis data
Output Value Y_L
R
05h
Low byte for Y-axis data
Output Value Y_H
R
06h
High byte for Y-axis data
Output Value Z_L
R
07h
Low byte for Z-axis data

---

Output Value Z_H
R
08h
High byte for Z-axis data
Status Register 2
R
09h
Data Status
Control Register 1
R/W
0Ah
Chip Control setting 1
Control Register 2
R/W
0Bh
Chip Control setting 2
Output Value T_L
R
1Ch
Low byte for Temperature data
Output Value T_H
R
1Dh
High byte for Temperature data
6.4.2 Who Am I Register
This Register provides device ID information
WAI (0x00)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:0
Device ID
R
6.4.3 Status Register 1
This Register provides status information of IST8310
STAT1 (0x02)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:2
Reserved
DOR: Turns to 1 when data has been skipped. Bit is released
after any output data register read
0: no data overrun
1: data overrun
R
DRDY: Data ready pin
0: data not ready
1: data ready
This status bit follows physical signal appearance, expect the
polarity control (refer to DRP bit in CNTL2 register)
If data ready function enable bit is not set (refer to DREN bit in
CNTL2 register), this bit is zero
R

---

6.4.4 Output Data Registers
The Output Registers (from 0x03h~0x08h) contain X, Y and Z axis measurement data. Measurement
data are stored in 2’s complement format.
DATAXL(0x03)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:0
Low Byte of X-axis data
R
DATAXH(0x04)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:0
High Byte of X-axis data
R
DATAYL(0x05)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:0
Low Byte of Y-axis data
R
DATAYH(0x06)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:0
High Byte of Y-axis data
R
DATAZL(0x07)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:0
Low Byte of Z-axis data
R
DATAZH(0x08)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:0
High Byte of Z-axis data
R
6.4.5 Status Register 2
In this register, there is an INT flag for customer use.
STAT2(0x09)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default

---

7:4
Reserved
INT : Interrupt bit. When interrupt event occurs, this bit will be
set to 1
R
2:0
Reserved
6.4.6 Control Setting Register 1
This Register controls and adjusts the main parameters.
CNTL1(0x0A)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:4
Reserved
3:0
Mode: Operating mode setting
0000: Stand-By mode
0001: Single Measurement Mode
Others: Reserved
R/W
6.4.7 Control Setting Register 2
This Register controls and adjusts the main parameters.
CNTL2(0x0B)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:4
Reserved
DREN : Data ready enable control:
0: disable
1: enable
Master switch for DRDY output pin
R/W
DRP: DRDY pin polarity control
0: active low
1: active high
R/W
Reserved
SRST: Soft reset, perform Power On Reset (POR) routine
0: no action
1: start immediately POR routine
This bit will be set to zero after POR routine
R/W

---

6.4.8 Self-Test Register
STR(0x0C)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
Reserved
SELF_TEST : When this bit set to 1, chip enters self-test mode
R/W
5:0
Reserved
6.4.9 Temperature Sensor Output Registers
The Output Data Registers use 2’s complement format.
TEMPL(0x1C)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:0
Low Byte of Temperature data
R
TEMPH(0x1D)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:0
High Byte of Temperature data
R
6.4.10 Average Control Register
This register controls the times of average done in the circuit to lower the noise. Higher average times
leads to lower noise.
AVGCNTL(0x41)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:6
Reserved.
R/W
5:3
Average times for y sensor data. Times of average will be done
before switch to next channel
3’b000   no average
3’b001   average by 2 times
3’b010   average by 4 times (Default)
3’b011   average by 8 times
3’b100   average by 16 times
R/W

---

Others: no average
2:0
Average times for x & z sensor data. Times of average will be
done before switch to next channel
3’b000   no average
3’b001   average by 2 times
3’b010   average by 4 times (Default)
3’b011   average by 8 times
3’b100   average by 16 times
Others: no average
R/W
6.4.11 Pulse Duration Control Register
This register controls the pulse duration for set/reset function of AMR sensors.
PDCNTL(0x42)
Bit
Description
Attr
Default
7:6
Pulse duration:
2’b01   Long
2’b11   Normal (please use this setting)
Others: only for extreme cases
R/W
5:0
Reserved.
R/W

---

7 Ordering Information
Order Number
Package Type
Packaging
Marking Information
LGA – 16 pin
Tape and Reel: 5k
pieces per reel
X1X2X30
010●
X1: Last number of the year
X2X3: Week number
010: Product code of IST8310
For more information on iSentek’s Magnetic Sensors, please contact us by phone at
+86-132-6706-8686 (China), +86-755-3337-0168 (China) or +886-2-2698-3306 ext:110 (Taiwan); via
e-mail: sales@isentek.com or visit us online at www.isentek.com.
The application circuits herein constitute typical usage and interface of iSentek’s product. iSentek does
not warranty or assume liability of customer-designed circuits derived from this description or
depiction.
iSentek reserves the right to make changes to improve reliability, function or design. iSentek does not
assume any liability arising out of the application or use of any product or circuit described herein;
neither does it convey any license under its patent rights nor the rights of others.
US Patent 9,297,863, Taiwanese Patents I437249, I420128 and I463160 apply to our magnetic sensor
technology described.
